Ephrata Elks Open Legion Season

The Ephrata Elks Legion baseball team's defense has certainly turned in a Jekyll and Hyde performance this season. And Dr. Jekyll can't hit the cutoff man. 
Ephrata's defense backed up Lonnie Myer for 10 innings in Ephrata's 2-1 win over Manheim Township in the first game of Sunday's double header at War Memorial Field. In the second game, Ephrata's defensive lapse and the bat of Clint Vance carried Manheim Township to a 12-6 victory.
Ephrata also lost error-filled games on Thursday and Friday and is 1-3 after the first week of play in the Lancaster Counter American Legion Baseball League. “Even more than I said before the season,” Ephrata Elks coach John Summers said, “defense—physically and mentally—is going to be the difference in the season.” That statement, combined with Ephrata's recent defensive difficulties, could have Summers banging his head against the dugout wall at War Memorial Field. But Summers believes he is seeing things fall into place, instead of hits falling in center field. 
“We have three players in different positions (than they played in high school),” Summers said. “They are just getting use to each other and are taking a better outlook on the game.”
The defense showed its first signs of playing as a unit in Sunday's opener with Manheim Township. 
Myer went the full 10 innings, struck out 11, and Ephrata's defense got Myer out of what little trouble he got into.
“I can't say enough about the way he pitched,” Summers said. “He had his stuff. His Fastball was working, his curveball was working, but what impressed me was (the way) he used his head on the mound. He moved the ball around and kept the hitters off balance. He's a good smart pitcher.” 
Mike Weidman, who was 3-for05 in the first game with both RBIs, singled home Jim Miller in the bottom of the 10th to end the game. 
But the day didn't end soon enough for Ephrata.
“After playing a good first game, them jumped on us quick,” Summers said. “And we never got back into the ball game.”
After a single and an Ephrata Elks error to open the game, Vance smacked an Eric Haines pitch into the beavers to give Manheim Township a 3-0 lead, three batters into the game.
Township took a 12-2 lead into the seventh inning before Ephrata scored four runs in a last-ditch effort to win the game.
“We could have used some of those runs in the first game,” Manheim Township Coach Russ Campagna said. Those guys were at the prom all night long. They only got two hour of sleep.” 
Whether or not Manheim Township's social calendar had an effect on the outcome of the first game is open to debate, but by late afternoon Vance wasn't showing any ill effects from dancing all night long. Manheim Township's right fielder kept his party alive with three other hits, including a triple and two singles. 
“It was one of those things that can happen in a baseball game,” Summers said. “I was less concerned with the first two games.” 
Ephrata's game with Reamstown was a horror show even without a monster. Ephrata Elks committed five errors in Friday's 10-6 loss to Reamstown and, according to Summers, there were several more mental mistakes that also led to runs. 
“Reamstown was a game where we were never in it from the start,” Summers said. Seven of their 10 runs were unearned.” 
Ephrata's league opened against New Holland was nearly as bad. 
“We were leading 4-3 in the third inning and then everything fell apart in the bottom of the fourth,” Summers said. 
NewHolland took advantage of eight walks by Ephrata pitching and several errors and scored six runs to break the game open. 
Ephrata rallied in the last two innings but could only get as close as 9-8. 
“It's hard to win when you give up that much,” Summers said.
But the season is still young and Summers has seen improvement already.
“Our offense, for the most part, has been consistent enough to win,” Summers said. (Ephrata is batting .270 as a team.) “We've played seven innings of good offense most of the time. Our pitching has been pretty consistent, but we need work on our defense, to say the least.”
Even on defense, Summers believes he is seeing progress.
“We're only 1-3 right now,” Summers said, “But I think we have shown a remarkable improvement from the first two games.” 


I Like Reggie

Amid last week's pile of press releases about celebrity quoit tournaments and junior Neo-midget baseball results, I received a letter from the office of the commissioner of Major League Baseball. Peter Uberroth did not just decided to drop me a line and see how things were going here in Ephrata. Instead, the public relations machine of the big leagues had just mailed me my press kit for the 1986 All-Star Game in Houston.
Uncle Ubie sent me a couple of logos to use, a letter explaining how each team would have representative at each position on the all-start ballot and my very own personal 1986 All-Star Game ballot.
Although my boss has chosen not to send me to Houston for the game because it conflicts with one of Reamstown's American Legion games, I still plan on filling out my ballot. In fact, it is my solemn duty as an American.
Quickly locating the American League outfields on the ballot, I bunch out the little hole next to Reggie Jackson's name. 
I could have stopped right there. As fas as all-start games go, Reggie is pretty much the only name that matters.
I don't buy the idea that the all-star game should be played by the players who have the best statistics at the time. The all-star game is about people and having a good time.  And who is more fun than Reggie? Regardless of the fact that French's and Gulden's would have to triple production to adequately cover Jackson, I have to like him. Reggie is more interesting than, say, all of the major league franchise in Canada. Lloyd Moseby an all-star? Don't make me laugh. Reggie generates more excitement in Texas Stadium in June than Moseby does in a pennant race in September.
Last Week Reggie passed Mickey Mantle for sixth place on the all-time home run list. He was also name in an $150,000 civil suit brought by a man who claims Jackson “choked him and slammed him to the floor during a barroom scuffle over an autograph,” according to the Philadelphia Daily News.
You have to like a guy that can make the record books and the court docket in the same week. And anyone who repeatedly gets into trouble with Billy Martin is an all-star in my book. Of course if that were the only criteria for an all-star, they would have to enlarge the dugouts at the Astrodome.
Of course there will always be people who insist Reggie is a has-been and that the new order should move into the spotlight. And they are wrong. Reggie is currently hitting .323, ninth in the American League, right behind Moseby and his .324 average. In 52 fewer at bats, Reggie has more home runs and RBIs than Moseby. On top of that, Reggie's California Angels are in first place in the American League Western Division, while the Blue Jays are three games below .500 and trailing the American League East. But it wouldn't matter to me if Reggie were hitting .182, which I'm sorry to say is not out of the realm of possibility. The man is an all-star. 
Personality and style, not just performance, are what make the all-star game. That is why the third baseball for the Boston Red Sox doesn't get my vote. You can toss the batting titles into the dumpster. Forget the fact that he is hitting a lethal .357 and Boston is currently in first place. Wade Boggs is still something kids do in Louisiana when they are trying to catch frogs. 
So Reggie is the captain of my American League all-star team, which incidentally, will lost to Dwight Gooden and whoever else Whitey Herzog sends to the mound.
I'll also take Eddie Murray in a coin-flip over Don Mattingly at first base, Willie Randolph at second by default, Cal Ripken Jr. at shortstop, George Brett and third. 
Give me Dave Winfield and Ricky Henderson to complement (cover for) Reggie in the outfield.
As much as it pains me, I have to pick Lance Parrish to be my catcher. Rickey Dempsey has the proper charisma, but in the last two years has had difficulty throwing out the trash. 
From the National League, I'd send Pete Rose (for most of the same reasons I like Reggie) Johnny Ray, Ozzie Smith and Mike Schmidt in my infield. You can pencil in Dale Murphy, Willie McGee and Time Raines in my outfield. 

Ephrata Twilight Squad Sweeps

On one hand there are people who believe good coaches make good teams. To those folks, Stan Hyman pushed all the right buttons in Ephrata's 50 and 5-3 victories over New Holland in Sunday afternoon's Twilight League opening day double-header.
On the other hand, if you believe good players happen to create good coaching, then Hyman's role is somewhat different. After all, if somebody is holding a fistful of aces, it doesn't much matter how he lays them down— he's still going to rake in the pot.
If you take both hands and clap them together, the resulting lump of baseball would probably be pretty close to what happened Sunday at War Memorial Field.
In the lexicon of sport, that phenomenon is loosely define as chemistry. People may not agree on what it is, but they usually agree that it is important.
"Any time you start the season, you want to get that chemistry," Hyman said. "And today that jelled in the first game."
Assuming that a shutout pitching performance, a defense which snuffed two rallies and a 10-hit offensive attach, is what Hyman meant by jelling, then Ephrata indeed reached that in the first game.
Tony Wechter led off the bottom of the first inning with a triple to right field. The next batter singles Wechter home and Ephrata has all the runs it will need in the game. But they got two more in the inning anyway. 
And that's how the first game went. If Ephrata needed the big play, it got it.
New Holland tried to mount a comeback in the inning after Ephrata broke on top.
Phil Weaver singled to open the inning but was then picked off by Ephrata catcher Darrin Donmoyer. New Holland's next two runners reached base, but third baseman Darrel Zug and Wechter turned the double play to end the inning. 
New Holland never threaten the rest of the way. 
New Holland, which is a new entrant in the league this year, missed it's best change to score in the fourth inning. With runners on second and third and one out, the Ephrata infield was playing deep, willing to concede a run for an out.
New Holland got the ground ball but the runners never advanced. John Summers got the final batter to line out to preserve his shutout.
"We wanted to get to them early," Hyman said. "Because they are new, we knew they were going to make mistakes." 
Summers avoided trouble the rest of the way and got his and Ephrata's first win of the season. Summers struck out six New Holland batters, while giving up just two walks.
In the second game, Wechter again scored after getting on base to open the game. But this time New Holland stayed close, scoring on a bases-loaded walk to tie the game in the third inning.
The score remained tied until Darrel Aug led off the sixth inning with a single and a steal of second base. Fasnacht hit a single back through the middle and Ephrata had a 2-1 lead. After scoring three more runs it looked like Scott Ahlum would pick up an easy victory in relief, but New Holland other plans. 
New Holland scored two runs in the top of the second and had the tying runs on based before Ahlum coaxed a ground ball to end the inning.
"We had one error and that didn't hurt us," Hyman said. "When you've got that kind of defense, you can play aggressively. If you take yourself out of an inning, you know you're not going to give a lot up."
In addition to the solid defense and pitching, Ephrata cracked 14 base hits in the game.

Carla Wenger High Jumps Personal Best and Qualifies for PIAA State Track and Field Champion This Weekend

Motivation experts from drill sergeants to moms will tell you— allowing for certain variances in style— that if at first you don't succeed, to keep on trying.
But what happens when you finally do succeed?
Ephrata's Carla Wenger is just starting to deal with that situation right now. Wenger improved her personal best or the second consecutive week and placed second in the Class AAA high ump at the PIAA District 3 track meet last Friday at Shippensburg University. Wenger's leap of 5-foot-4 earned her a silver medal and a return trip to Shippensburg for this weekend's PIAA state championships.
Wenger was the only area athlete to qualify for the PIAA state meet. Garden Spit's Kirk Hunsecker finished second in the boys' Class AAA discus, but his throw of 148-5 was 19 inches short of the state qualifying standard.
While Lancaster Catholic's Amy Conti won the high jump with a jump of 5-5, Wenger's second place leap of 5-4 was her personal goal for the season.
"I'd like to go 5-4 or higher at the state meet," Wenger said. "Now my goal is 5-4. I didn't know if making 5-4 was lucky or not. But I am confident I can make 5-3." 
Until two weeks ago, Wenger had been stuck at 5-2, which she cleared early in the year, but never improved on until she won the Lancaster-Lebanon championship two weeks ago. 
After literally reaching new heights, Wenger is cautiously optimistic about bettering her personal mark at Friday's state meet.
"It's a goal, but I don't expect to make it," Wenger said, with emphasis on the word expect. "It's not out of the question, but I'm not sure."
There are good reasons for Wenger's uncertainty. The first reason is that Friday will be Wenger's first trip to the state meet and anything can happen.
The second reason is that Wenger will be competing in only the high jump. 
"I think it may help," Wenger said, "but I'm not sure. I've never done just one event before. I've always had two, three, or four events to do. But I think it will be good."
Wenger finished fifth in the long jump, but did not reach the state qualifying standard of 16-11 in the Distance.

Oranges Have Sections

Since coming to Lancaster last spring, one questions has entered my. Mind more often than any other. And it's a real perplexer.
I have asked almost everyone whom I could corner. And no one seems to know the answer. What is the organizational concept behind the Lancaster-Lebanon league?
Like Einstein's theory of relativity—which has nothing to do with your Aunt Sophie—the master plan behind the Lancaster-Lebanon-And-Sometimes-Berks (LLASB) League is simply beyond our feeble powers of comprehension. 
The alignment of sections—which, incidentally, are called divisions in the remainder of the civilized world—seems to present more combinations than a Chinese restaurant. Pick two from Section One and one from Section Two.
Take Garden Spot for example. The Spartans are in Section One for soccer, Section Two for football, and Section Four in baseball. Meanwhile, neighboring Conestoga Valley is in Section One in field hockey, Section Two in soccer, and Section Three for baseball.
Where I come from, the high school league has two different league groupings: east versus west or big versus small.
Most of the leagues are based east against west. The schools in the eastern half of the country form the easter division and play each in an appropriate league schedule and determine an eastern division champion. The champion then plays in the winner of the western division which is determined exactly the same was in the other half of the county.
For sports like football and track, this idea doesn't work. The big schools generally dominate. So for a few sports, the big schools and the small schools are separated into divisions and two champions are crowned. 
In the Lancaster-Lebanon-And-Sometimes-Berks League, things don't work that way. Football is wisely broken into sections according to size, except for Lancaster Catholic. Two teams from Berks County, and next year a this Berks County school, are thrown into the hat. 
The other sports do things differently.
Little Elco and big McCaskey are both in soccer's Section One. So size can only be part of the process.
Northern Lebanon and Pequea Valley are in the same section. Why heck, they are practically in different timezones. 
Perhaps nicknames are the grouping in Section Three. All Section Three soccer teams have nicknames referring to people. The Pequea Valley Braves, Warwick Warriors, Lampeter-Strasburg Pioneers, Donegal Indians, and the Lebanon Cedars are the people who make up Section Three. At first, I thought the Ephrata Mountaineers should replace the Cedars because the Mountaineers would help the Pioneers and the Little Dutchmen might the three Indian schools. But Lebanon is allowed to stay in Section Three one a technicality: the Cedars is also the name of a civic group.
For a moment I thought Section Two consisted of schools with nicknames describing meteorological phenomena because of the Comets and Blue Streaks. That theory was sent crashing to earth when I noticed the Red Tornado of McCaskey in Section One.
Apparently nicknames have nothing to do with how the LLASV League forms its sections.
Actually, a couple of phone calls and discussions cleared it up—more or less.
I was told some of the sports are aligned by size, see are aligned by geographic location, and some are just lumped together. And there are also exceptions.
So that's why Elco is in Section One. The school has a strong soccer program and feels it will play a more competitive schedule against he bigger schools. Conversely Clas AAAA Lebanon is in Section Three for Soccer.
And apparently the system works pretty well. Even if you do have to figure out new rivalries and the beginning of each season.
But they should do the right thing and call a division a division. Stadiums and oranges have sections: leagues have divisions.

Mistakes Eliminate Buckskins From PIAA Baseball Playoffs

If you could accurately say one bullet was the deciding factor in the Second World War, then it would be pretty easy to say the Jef Feiler's error on a fly ball in the sixth inning was the sole difference in Conestoga Valley's 3-1 loss to Boyertown in the PIAA state baseball playoffs.
"I don't think we gave them the game," Conestoga Valley Coach Ed Rand said. "And I don't think Boyertown came out and took it to us. They just got one more break than we did."
The loss ended Conestoga Valley's season with a record of 18-7. Boyertown will face Williamsport Thursday in the second round of the PIAA Class AAA state tournament.
With the score tied 2-2 in the top of the sixth inning, M.J. Weller, who was 3-for-4 in the game, led off with a single for Boyertown and was replaced by a pinch runner. Left-hander Scott Gegg then struck out the next two Bears before waling Pete Kurtz.
Gegg then got Eric Frey to hit a seemingly routine fly ball to right field. Feiler positioned himself and then momentarily lost the ball in the sun. Feiler couldn't find the ball quickly enough and dropped the ball allowing the go-ahead run to score.
While Feiler's error came at a crucial point in the game, there were more than a few successes and failures which led up to that situation, as well as several after the error.
First the failures:
Rusty Smith made an error on a single to center field, allowing Boyertown hitter to go from first to third. The runner later scored Boyertown's second run after a single to left.
Five base runner—three for Boyertown and two for Conestoga Valley—got picked off first base. One of those was Eric Luque who represented the Buckskins' tying run in the bottom of the seventh inning.
A missed sacrifice bunt attempt caught Conestoga Valley's Keith Hooley between first and second based in the last inning.
Boyertown failed to score an insurance run with two men on and one out in the fourth inning. The bears never even put the ball in play. One runner was caught stealing and the other was picked off.
And the successes:
Luque's two-RBI triple tied the game with two outs in the fourth inning.
Boyertown's starting pitcher, Chris Ludy, pitched five innings and gave up just one walk.
Conestoga Valley's pitcher, Scott Gegg, struck out Boyertown's batters with runners in scoring position three times. Gegg struck out eight batters.
Boyertown reliever Joey Welcher struck out four Buckskins in two innings of relief. 
Boyertown committed no defensive errors.
And so on. One team's success was the other's failure.
"We knew they were going to steal," Rand said. "That's how that team is. But I felt we handled it well."
Boyertown successfully stole five of six bases, but also had three men picked off.
"Both teams ran the bases poorly," Boyertown Coach Ron Jameson said. "We picked off a few of their runners and they certainly did too." Jameson added that he didn't think base inning turned out to be a factor, He believed that the two errors in the outfield together represented the difference in the game.
"I think we played a great defensive game," Rand said. "And they had a fine team. We played on the the best teams in the state and held our own."
And in a season where any sort of title eluded the Bucksins, respect turns out to be an invisible but valuable trophy. 
After finishing second to Manheim Township in the Section Four race and being eliminated from the Lancaster-Lebanon League playoffs, Conestoga Valley was awarded an at-large bid to the District 3 playoffs. The Bucksins eliminated league champion Northern Lebanon, Wrack, and Manheim Township to advance to the district final and a chance to win an official title.
"Friday's game against Cumberland Valley was for the District 3 championship," Rand said. "The game was for a title. I thought we were more up for that than for the Boyertown game.
But again Conestoga Valley's title hopes were eliminated when Cumberland Valley got both the timely hits and the gold medals. 
"I made some critical coaching mistakes on the bases," Rand said. "And as a coach I'm at fault, but the difference was that they were getting the key hit and we weren't."
In the third inning of the Cumberland Valley game, John Condon drew a walk from Feiler to open the inning. Condon advanced to second on a sacrifice bunt and scored on Mike Rajnik's RBI single.
Cumberland Valley's Kevin Smith preserved the one-run lead and Dino Webster gave Smith two insurance runs in the top of the seventh inning with a ground-rule double into the bleachers at War Memorial Field.

Six Cocalico Senior Recruited to Play College Football

At the very least there is a common level of communication between the coaches and players in Cocalico's football program. Not because the coaches say so. Not because the players say so. Both parties say so.
The system that has produced a 30-5 record in the last three years has also produced this year six players who will continue their football careers at the college level.
"We're never had that many from one class go on to play football," Cocalico Coach Phil Kauffman said. "I'm really happy."
Six players will play for six different schools from Division III to Division I-AA. The players will study areas ranging from build to manufacturing technology.
"Speed and intelligence," Kauffman said, summing up what he believes are the traits that athletes who are planning to play football in college, must have. "You have to have good athletes who are willing to do what they are told."
Those beliefs, coupled with the same coaches teaching them, is what players and coaches alike believe has built Cocalico's program. 
"I think that we have a pretty good group of assistant coaches here," Kauffman said. "We've had the same system in operation for about six years now."
Jim Shusser, who will play his college football at California University of Pennsylvania, credits both the system and the people. Shusser said getting to know the coaches made it easier to learn what was expected of players. According to Shusser, what was expected was discipline, which was Brough about by respect.
"I think we were more disciplined than a lot of teams," Shusser said, "because we know our coaches and respect them."
Following are brief sketches of the colleges each player chose and why he selected the school.
Trey Rhyne
When Rhyne selectedDartmouth College, he cited two reasons for his decision. "I like where it's at (New Hampshire)," Rhyne said. "And the people were nice." Rhyne is planning to major in economics at Dartmouth. 
Brian Walters
While Walters agreed with Rhyne that liking the people was an important factor in his decisions, he also mentioned another reason why he chose East Stroudsburg University.
"It's far enough away from home," Walters said. "I liked the people and I had fun when I was up there."
Walters is going to study business and business administration in addition to playing for the Warriors.

Bill Good Elected To Hall of Fame

Bill Good celebrated his 76th birthday by lifting a one-ton weight, being in ducted in to the hall of fame, baking a cake and going dancing. Just your basic birthday celebrations—if you happen to be reading Marvel Comics.
Good is something of a marvel in his own right. The Reamstown resident is a two-time Olympian and 50 years after the Berlin Olympics he is still going strong, literally.
At 76, Good still lifts weights regularly in the garage of his Reamstown home.
When Good lifts weight, he is not just going through the motions. Last Saturday, Good went out into his backyard, strapped on a lifting harness and proceeded to lift a 2,150-pound dumbbell 100 times, To put this into some perspective, find a strong plow harness and take it to a nearby parking lot. Slip into the harness, fasten it to a vehicle and lift the car off the ground. If you repeat the procedure with every compact and sub-compact car in the lot it will give a rough approximation of Good's feat.
"There's a good many that can lift it," Good said, "but it's the repetitions that count."
"It's know-how. There are a lot of people that are stronger than I am, but they haven't worked at something like this."
While Good was being more than a little modest, he did agree that his strength at 76 is unique. 
"I think it will be a long time until someone my age comes along and lifts this weight a hundred times," Good said.
The weight is a 2,150-pound cast-iron bell, which Good and his brothers purchase from a weightlifter on Coney Island in 1929. The weight now rests on a platform in Good's back yard, and not surprisingly, has never been stolen.
Good's goal was to lift the bell 76 times, but after the first 76, Good still felt spry and added 24 more lifts for good measure.
His efforts have been noticed.
John Terpak, a teammate of Good's at the 1936 Olympics, presented Good with a plaque announcing his election to the United States Weightlifting Federation Hall of Fame.
Good placed fourth in both the 1932 and 1936 Olympics and was also this country's first international weightlifter.
"I was the first American to go overseas," Good said. " I littered against the English champion."
Good's career took him all over the European and North American continents.
His participation in the 1936 Olympic procession brought him almost face to face with Adolph Hitler.
"I was on the outside (row) at the parade," Good said, "And he was there. I was as close to him as from here to you," he added, pointing to the six-foot space between himself and another bystander.
The medals from his days as a competitor now hand in a small display case on the wall of Good's Reamstown living room. And while his house and the garage where he lifts weight are covered with memories, Good is more concerned with today and tomorrow than he is with yesterday.
"I'm going to go dancing tonight," Good said, "I generally go dancing on weekends, there's not much else to do here."
Good had even baked a walnut cake for his guests' refreshment after his workout.
In addition to his regular workouts, Good is careful about what he eats.
"I eat turkey and poultry," Good said. "I like vegetables and I like my ice cream pretty well."
The combination of diet and exercise has paid off.
"I haven't had a physical illness for the last 35 years," Good said.

Ephrata Elks Sweeps Lititz to End Season

For nearly anyone wearing a uniform with the work "Ephrata," painted on it, there is only one joy greater than beating a team from Warwick — beating a team from Warwick twice.
When the Ephrata becomes the Ephrata Elks and Warwick becomes Lititz, nothing changes. Players look through the summer uniforms of Legion baseball and see Warwick and Ephrata.
The Ephrata Elks American Legion baseball team finished its season by taking two games from Lititz, Sunday at Warwick High School.
Ephrata defeated Lititz, 9-3 in the completion of a game suspended earlier in the season and then captured the regularly scheduled game, 14-7.
The two wins on Sunday, coupled with a forfeit win over Reamstown which dropped from the league, ended Ephrata's season with a mark of 10-6.
The losses eliminated Lititz from the division championship race. Lititz's record dropped to 9-6 with one game remaining, against division champion Manheim Township.
"It was a good way to finish the season," Ephrata Elks Coach John Summers said, "Especially against Lititz. We beat them four times this year. And you don't do that often."
Eric Haines and Winford Horst were the chief architects of Sunday's pair of wins. Haines pitched in both contests, picking up a win and a save. Horst was 3-for-3 with two home runs.
When the suspended game was resumed, Haines went to the mound with a one-run lead and Lititz coming to bat in the bottom of the seventh inning. At this point, Lititz was still in the title chase, but Haines conveyed three consecutive ground balls into an Ephrata win.
"When that game got suspended (three weeks ago) it looked like it would be the key to one (of the two) team's season," Summers said.
Manheim Township defeated both teams since then and decreased the importance of the suspended game, at least as far as the title was concerned. The games simply came down toWarwick versus Ephrata.
And that was enough.
"Winning that quick one in the first game really helped us going into the second game," Summers said.
Two outs after Jim Mille's lead-off walk, Horst knocked a fastball into the street in right field, giving Ephrata a 2-0 lead.
Haines started the second game and continued to pitch well. An error and a wild pitch game Lititz a single run, but the Elks' offense quickly got the run back in the second inning. Along with six more.
Lonnie Myer led off the second inning with a solo home run and Ephrata rapped four more hits and drew two walks to take a commanding 9-1 lead.
Meanwhile, Haines who had been struggling on the mound for most of the season, successfully avoided giving up the big inning. Haines pitched 6 1/3 inning on the day and allowed seven runs, while striking out five and walking two. He hasn't overpowering, but he kept the Ephrata outfielders from spending too much time chasing balls into the shade trees which line the field at Warwick.
Horst homered again in the sixth inning and Matt Landis tripled and scored on a sacrifie fly, giving Ephrata a 14-6 lead.
Scott Showalter relieved Haines in the bottom of the inning, retiring the side in order on a flyable and two strikeouts.
Marie Brubaker finished the game and only allowed Lititz a solo run in the bottom of the last inning.

Wanted: Hero

Searching for a sports hero, these days, is like looking for a small needle in a large haystack. And if you find an elusive needles, it's liable to have a syringe attached to it.
Undeniably, today's athletes are bigger, stronger, faster and better at what they do. At least, what they do on the field. Sometimes it seems the gains made on Sheffield come at the expense of the nebulous qualities that make up a hero. And we need a hero.
Badly.
There was a time when the world was bigger and television mini-cams weren't lurking everywhere. Information spread more slowly. And imagination, not network exclusives, helped to formulate people's opinions.
The next true hero — we can only hope there will be one – will have a tough job. When the cameras start rolling and notepads start filling up, every aspect of this person's life will become public knowledge.
The next hero should have a background as spotless as Mr. Robers' neighborhood, where it's always a beautiful day.
Our hero will have to be as articulate and composed as Julius Erving. When David Letterman asks if our hero's childhood was really that perfect, our hero can laugh confidently and say "asa matter of fact, David, it was. Is that something to be ashamed of?"
The integrity of someone like Joe Paterno would certainly be of use to any hero. Temptation to take shortcuts always surrounds athletes. It must be resisted. 
Of course this hero must unquestionably dominate his or her sport the way Martina Navratilova dominates the women's' tennis tour, Hero is not a sexist word, only heroine is. But a problem does arise at this point. Now that women have ventured down nearly every athletic avenue, perhaps two heroes are needed. The virtues would be similar, but young girls would relate better to a female athlete.
Male and female heroes could not come from the same sport for one reason. Women do not play baseball and football. In America, the true male sports hero would have to play on of these sports. Gretzky might do the job in Canada and Diego Maradona might be able to get elected to the presidency of Argentina, but just try selling hockey or soccer to the citizens of Texas.
On the subject of geography, our hero would have to play on one of a few select cities. New York City and Southern California would have to be eliminated – because they are simply too weird. We have enough perverted heroes.
Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia, Detroit, and Baltimore would make a fine hometown. All facilities with either domes of artificial turf would have to be replaced with open-air, grass-filled stadiums. Heroes don't play indoors on rugs. When the game is over, a hero should be dirty and sunburned, not pale and brush-burned.
This list goes on and it becomes clear that someone able to fill the uniform will be hard to find. Indeed, it could be argued such a person can't exist. 
Fiction has picked up the gauntlet in an attempt to create a hero, Bernard Malamud's, "The Natural invented a right fielder name Roy Hobbs, who was a fairy-table caricature of baseball's best player, Robert Redford played Hobbs in the movie version of the tale. Redford looked the part, but heroes require more personality than cardboard Bob conveys. 
A different — extremely so  approach to creating a fictional hero is the hyperthyroid morality play that is professional wrestling. Perhaps the reason for wrestling's popularity as a "sport" is that it treats something which doesn't occur naturally. Trust me on this one, George "the animal" Steele is not a naturally occurring phenomenon.
Sadly, the evidence points to the conclusion that it would be impossible for any hero to live up to the expectations of the public. Maybe it is the public expectations that should change.
But once in a while, it doesn't hurt to dream.

Buckskins Advance to AAA Final

If this baseball season was an old-fashioned Saturday afternoon matinee, Conestoga Valley's quest for the District 3 baseball championship would be the weekly serial "The Perils of CV."
Each week the red, white, and blue-clad heroes would find themselves in some seemingly hopeless situation only to miraculously escape in the final reel.
In Tuesday's episode, Conestoga Valley used some superb defense and itching to stifle a Manheim Township threat in the sixth inning and give the Buckskins a 1-0 win in a District 3, Class AAA semifinal at War Memorial Field.
Conestoga Valley, 18-3, will play in the District 3 championship game Friday against the winner of the James Buchanan and Cumberland Valley contest. The site of the championship game will be announced after the other semifinal game has been played. The win also assures the Buckskins of a birth in the state tournament.
Conestoga Valley scored the game's only run in the first inning when Rusty Smith reached base on an error by Manheim Township's second baseman. Bill Greiner's throw got by the first baseman and went out of play, giving Smith second base. Smith advanced to third and scored on consecutive sacrifices by Eric Luque and and Eric Esbenshade.

Ya Gotta Have A Loser

Fear of spiders, snakes and Brent Musberger are three of this country's most irrational fears. In this writer's opinion, only two of the above are irrational.
But this column is not devoted, regardless of how much I might like it to be, to the man who visits millions of homes each autumn Sunday as the host of "NFL Today."
I was watching the 76ers and the Milwaukee Bucks have at each other in the last game of their playoff series Sunday and Musberger was part of the package deal.
"It's a shame one of these two teams has to lose this game," Musberger said late in the game. At least he said something very close to that assuming those of us out here in television land would believe it to be an original thought.
Normally, I retain about as much of what Musberger says as I do the day's stock quotations after a two-second glance. But I had hear the same statement the day before.
"It's too bad somebody has to lose this game," I heard someone say at Saturday's Section Four playoff game between Garden Spot and Warwick. I don't remember who it was, and I assume Brent wasn't in the stands at War Memorial Field. At least I didn't see the Big Eye's production trucks sitting in the parking lot.
Either one of these incidents should have warranted about as much notice as grass in the field. But hearing the same statement twice in 24 hours caused me to think about the cliche.
My conclusion came quickly. It was not a shame that one team had to lose — in either game. 
As far as the NBA playoffs are concerned, I find it very hard to feel any shame for 12 guys who just happen to have salaries bigger than the operating budgets of several developing African countries, after they lost a basketball game. The fact is, I have to strain to even feel a little sorrow.
The same goes for the baseball game between Garden Spot and Warwick, but for a different reason.
Warwick's baseball team did not show up at War Memorial Field thinking what a shame it would be if Garden Spot had to lose the game. The only team the Warriors did not want to see loose was the Warriors. And in the true spirit of sports, Garden Spot was more than happy to see Warwick lose.
And there is absolutely nothing wrong with either of those views. That is precisely what sports are all about. It inevitably comes down to a winner and a loser. Walking onto the playing field, court, track, or whatever, means a player is accepting the possibility of losing. That's simply how it is. Mention the word "the agony of defeat" and 80 percent of us think of the ski jumper, who body is more or less bounced off the side of an embankment and the side of a building.
It is not a glowing success story. But it is hard of what sports is all about.
If someone chooses to participate they must, if they have any maturity at all, deal with winning and losing. They don't have to like losing, they simply have to deal with it.
Winning and losing, in my mind, are inseparable. Like peanut butter and jelly, they just belong together.
The same goes for writing about sports. Ignoring the losers of a game for no reason other than the fact that it can be difficult to someone who has just lost a game which is important to that person, isn't right. You wouldn't want to hear just one side of the story in a trial, would you? However, fair reporting does not mean hanging the weight of the world on the shoulders of a 16-year-old for making an error at a crucial point in a big game.
Still, that does not change my opinion one iota that each contest must have a winner and a loser.
Sorry, Brent.

Jordan Performs Varied Roles Well

Michael Jordan believes his celebrity status should be tool rather than a reward. Everybody knows tools should be used to make something useful.
There is no doubt the Chicago Bulls all-star guard has a vast array of equipment to work with, just ask anyone who has com into contact with him at the University of North Carolina, the Los Angeles Olympics or in the NBA. The use of that talent has made him a celebrity. Now he wants to put that to use."I think I'm in a position to go out and give some guidance to people who need it at a young age," Jordan said, during a phone interview on Monday. Jordan will appear at the Hershey's National Track & Field Youth Program national finals, Saturday, August 16 at Henry Hershey field on the Campus of the Milton Hershey School in Hersey.
"Drugs and alcohol are not the best things for an athlete," Jordan said, becoming more specific about what kind of guidance he was offering. "They might make you feel good at the time, but they will hurt you in the long run."
To that end, Jordan is 100 percent for drug testing in the NBA. He compared drug testing in pro posts to vaccination in public schools. He believes both of the former should be requisites for the latter. 
"If you want to play in professional sports, you should have to take the test,: Jordan said. "If you don't pass the drug test, you don't get in."
"I think (professional players) have to take the test to get the positive image back into sports. We really need to get the positive image back into sports. Drug testing is the way to do that."
Jordan's role as an anti-drug spokesman is just one of the roles he thinks falls to him as a professional athlete. And to other athletes too.
"I think all athletes should feel the way I do," said Jordan, about athletes' position as role models. "Professional athletes are lucky people."
As a professional basketball player, Jordan obviously has a role to fill on the court.
"I think I am going to be one o the team leaders," Jordan said. "As a player, my goal is to play as well as I can on offense and on defense."
Jordan will be an integral part o the Bulls' hopes for success this year. Jordan missed most of the last season with a foot injury. As a team, the Bulls had serious injury problems through most of last season. A healthy Bulls' team took two games from the Boston Celtics before being eliminated in the first round of the playoffs.
"I want to be healthy throughout the season," Jordan said. "That's my main personal goal.
"As far as the team goes, I hope we can see more consistency throughout the season. If the team is winning, then I think the individual accolades will take care of themselves."

A Legislative Home Run

Most of the time, my contact with the world of politics is limited to voting in general elections and keeping an eye on various political religious groups which seek to limit freedom of the press. Censorship is a big issue to newspaper people. Plus, sports is not – at least, should not be – an area that rubs shoulders with the actions of government.
House Bill 1625 is a notable exception.
Without a ball being put into play or a single point being scored, the General Assembly of Pennsylvania has become involved with that might be the most important sport story of the year.
The crucial sentence, which is 21 lines long so I am going to shorten it some, of House Bill 1925 reads as follow: "... Except as provided otherwise in this section, no person who, without compensation and as a volunteer, renders services as a manager, coach, instructor, umpire, or referee or who, without compensation and as a volunteer, assistant a manager, coach, instructor, nonprofit association... shall be liable to any person for any civil damages or sponsoring such sports program unless the conduct of the person or nonprofit association falls substantially below the standards generally practiced and accepted in like circumstances..."
Translating from legalese (an often hideous, incomprehensible language), means Little League volunteers are protected from civil suits as a result of their participating in youth sports programs. House Bill 1625 goes on for two and a half more pages to define everything in painful, but necessary, detail.
House Bill 1625, which became Act 57 of 1986 when Governor Thornburgh signed it into law earlier this summer, represents a wise move by the legislature of this Commonwealth. In an age where lawsuits are threatening to replace baseball as the national pastime, a law which helps reverse the trend - or at least slow it – increases my faith in our government.
Sadly, the time in which we live requires that laws be passed to protect us from our lack of common sense.
Maybe I am a cynic, but I don't find it hard to believe that someone would sue over a Little Leaguer getting hit in the head with a pop-up because he wasn't taught how to judge fly balls properly. But that is what happened.
I am not sure of the specifics, but there was a published story about a parent who sued over an incident where a child who normally played infield was moved into the outfield. The child was not accustomed to the position, misjudged a fly ball, got bopped on the head and the family sued. The plaintiff was awarded damages. That I do find hard to believe. The entire situation strikes me as a case of world-class ridiculousness.
What's next? Do "Little Johnny's" parents sue for emotional pain and suffering damages because Johnny was unadvisable sent home by his third base coach and thrown out at home plate?
In Pennsylvania, the answer is a resounding NO. 
Thanks to House Bill 1625 and Gov. Thornburgh's signature.
The person responsible for this legislation deserves serious applause, but I don't know who came up with the original idea. The bill was introduced by 54 members of the general assembly last fall. This is the type of legislation which usually draws support faster than kids get dirty. Politicians love to be associated with positive non-controversial issues. But that doesn't bother me one little bit. Because even if the public doesn't have the foresight to stop this type of nuisance suit, in this case the Pennsylvania General Assembly did.
Bravo. Play ball.

Done Too Soon

The first football has yet to be kicked off and I miss baseball already. I know the Mets are making a mockery of the NL east and that somebody will have to win the AL west, but it's local baseball I really miss. Major League Baseball is a little too, well, too antiseptic. Most of just don't have the opportunity to get close enough to real major league players to contaminate and therefore humanize them. Oh, I can root for my beloved Orioles, but I can't root with them.
That was not the case with the Ephrata Black Sox in 1986. The almost championship season of this borough's entry in the Lebanon-Lancaster Twilight League wrapped up a season, let week, in a fashion best described by Grateful Dead guitar player Jerry Garcia: "What a long strange trip it's been."
"The rollercoaster ended on the upswing," Ephrata Coach Stan Hyman said, discussing Ephrata's season on Monday. 
The Black Sox – which didn't have a nickname until a context selected the Black Sox toward the end of the season – won more games this season than the team had ever won in its four-year history. But there was more to it than that.
Ephrata, which finished its season at 24-14, had the kind of a season, which if videotaped, could become the latest request to the "Bad News Bears." 
The file, which starred Walter Matthau and an ensemble cast of Little Rascals, capitalized on the notion that baseball should be fun.
The Black Sox are comprised of players who have successfully navigated the straits of puberty. In Ephrata only the plot has changed. The theme remains the same. Fun first, Winning, that's also first, but not at the cost of having some fun.
"The goal is to have fun and put winning seasons together," Hyman said. "They come out right after work, oat six o-clock, for the love of baseball."
The fact that Ephrata was playing for fun did not mean they weren't taking baseball seriously. Sloppy baseball is not enjoyable.
There were times when picking up aground ball seemed like an alien concept. And there were also times when throwing was seemingly an art lost with the fall of the Mayan civilization. But those times were certainly the exception. Any there were also flashed of brilliance. Major League Baseball provides that too. So why not stay at home with people, not just players.
Roger Kahn wrote a book which should be read by everyone who loves baseball, as well as those who don't and can't understand why people do. "The Boys of Summer" is the story of the Brooklyn Dodges of the Jackie Robinson era. The book details Kahn's first seasons as a sports writer for the New York Herald-Tribune assigned to covering the Dodgers. 
Elbert's Field is an along way – in time as well as distance – from War Memorial Field. Both both ball clubs were the local team. There are people who are still angry that the Dodgers have become a thing of California.
The warning here is not to let this team leave War Memorial Field.
"The other food thing about the season, "Hyman said at the end of a long discussion about a long, successful season, "is that the twilight team is now part of the community."
Eleven of the 22 players on this season's roster are from the Ephrata/Denver area. The balance of the team is made up of players from Lititz, Lancaster and other surround areas. And that's important, because people are just as interested in people making the plays as they are what plays are made.
The Black Sox, in time, will be part of the procession of baseball in Ephrata: midget, high school, Legion baseball and, finally the Sox should become the career path for local players.
On the field, 1986 was a memorable season. A first-ever division title and championship confrontation with Palmyra, were part of the what, hopefully, will become a tradition. A rivalry with Smitty's Cardinals is developing, as well as the guest for the honor of dethroning Palmyra as the league champion. 
Outside the chalk lines, 1986 was the start of a closer positive relationship between baseball in Ephrata and Ephrata baseball. The former being baseball played within the borough limits. Th leather being a positive part of this town.
There was a lot of positive things about Ephrata baseball this summer. I'm looking forward to seeing them again next summer.

This Was a Race Too?

Mark Amway's record-setting victory was Theo ally story of the ninth annual Firecracker Run. The moon is made of green cheese and the Green Dragon sells nothing but produce.
Even to someone watching their first Firecracker Five Mile Run, assuming the witness was paying attention, could tell the race was much more than Lancaster County's top distance runner battering his own course record and winning his third Firecracker championship.
The race was about as diverse as the 614 people who crossed the finish line. From Mark Amway to Melvin Zimmerman, it was all there — including a malt beverage superhero, a larger than life six=pack and one-half of the Blues Brothers.
While Amway and women's champion Jennifer Kegel, also of Lancaster, were the main stories, they were not the only ones.
The last two runners may have received a louder ovation than the two overall champions.
When Adam Watts crossed the finish line 1 hour, 10 minutes and 28 seconds, the crowd was on its feet. On its feet not only to reward a valiant effort, but on its feet straining to see him. Adam is five years old. And when he turned on to the track at War Memorial field, with his father David Watts — matching Adam in what can never be described as stride for stride — the crowd came to life.
The crowd's reaction Brough an increased look of determination to Adam's face. His little arms pumped harder. The late kick was too much for David Watts, who finished on second behind his charging son.

Town Team Rolls Into First Place

At Hersheypark, paying the admission price means you can ride the rollercoaster as often as you like. Apparently the Ephrata twilight team has a similar plan.
But the Town Team is ready to move on to other attractions in the Lebanon-Lancaster Twilight league — like remaining in first place.
"Maybe," said Ephrata Coach Stan Hyman, "the rollercoaster ride is over. We are now beating the ball clubs we are supposed to be beating. All three facets of the game (pitching, hitting and defense) are coming together."
The immediate cause for Hyman's optimism was Ephrata's 6-2 win over Jonestown, Monday night at War Memorial Field.
The longterm cause was the twilight team's three-game winning streak (four of its last five) and its recently obtained position at the top o the American Division of the L-L Twilight League.
Ephrata will host unbeaten Palmyra in a double-header, starting at 6:15 p.m., Wednesday, July 9, at War Memorial Field.
Daren Myers and Jeff Kurtz drew walks in the bottom of the first innings. After two strikeouts, Darryl Zig, Mike Blum, Brad Eidemiller and Scot Engle connected for consecutive single and Ephrata jumps out to a 4-0 lead.
That was all the scoring starting pitcher Scott Ahlum needed. Ahlum went the distance to improve his record to 5-0. Ahlum has two complete-game victories, two wins in relief and a save. Ahlum has compiled an ERA of 2.56, with 14 strikeouts and 13 walks.
Monday, Ahlum gave up just five hits and five walks, and the Town Team's defense backed up the pitching.
"They hit a lot of hard shots," Hyman said. "But that's why the defense is there."
Ephrata scored solo runs in both the second and third innings to pad Ahlum's lead.
Jonestown, which is currently in second place in the National Division, scored single runs in the second and fifth innings.
The result is first place — for the moment, at least — in the American Division.
"It's nice to be chased rather than chasing," Hyman said.
But with a one-game lead (as of Monday) and 12 games left in the season, Ephrata isn't making arrangements to have any trophies engraved.
Ephrata lost, 6-2, to Community Magazine (Lebanon) June 15, edged Jonestown 7-6, the next night, before being shelled by the dreadnaught that is Palmyra.
"They came out and took it to us," Hyman said of the 9-3 loss in Palmyra last Monday. "You have to do that to them. They are too good of a team."
Ephrata issued a couple drubbings of its own in victories over Lebanon and Hershey last week. The Town Team defeated Hersey, 9-2 and Lebanon 9-4.

Mark Amway Shatters Own Firecracker Record

The ninth annual Firecracker Five-Mile Run fell logically into place like a high school geometry theorem.
Mark Amway was the instructor.
Last week, Amway said if he felt good and the weather was right, then he had a good change at breaking both the course record and the 25-minute barrier in the annual Fourth of July Race.
Amway felt good, the weather was near-perfect and the record was shattered.
Amway, who ran for Lock Haven State College and now teaches at McCaskey, broke his course record to win the Firecracker in a time of 24:30, Friday. Jennifer Kegel was the women's champion in a time of 30:22. 
"The first two miles I had some trouble with my breathing," Amway said. "But when I got to the third mile marker, I knew I had a shot."
Amway said his stopwatch malfunctioned and he didn't know what his time was until he got to the third mile marker. Race Director Barry Rachel had times at the mile markers and Amway was able to check his progress.
At the four-mile mark, Amway calculated he needed to run the final mile in a time of 5:40 to break both the record and the 25-minute barrier.
Radio communication rom the mil markers relayed the information to the crowd waiting at War Memorial Field. A delay — whether it was intentional or not may never be known — in reporting Amway's four mile split increase the excitement at the finish line. But when Amway charged through the gate in the northeast corner of War Memorial Field, there was no doubt the record would fall. The only question remaining was by how much.
The answer was 35 seconds. Amway set the previous record last year, with a time of 25:06. 
The numbers game was a little different for the women's champion.
At the first mile marker, Kegel was mentioned by number only.
Few people, the race director was not one of them, knew the identity of number 400.
"She was completely unknown to me," Race Director Barry Kechal said, "But that doesn't mean she wasn't a creditable runner."
Kegel, 28, is from Lancaster, according to information from Kachel's registration forms.
Apparently, she enjoyed the role of a mystery runner. 
All the women's champion had to say before going about her business, was that it wasn't a bad race, but it wasn't a personal best time.
Although the feild was a little smaller than in previous years, with only 636 registered runners, the race

A Good Baseball Town

Baseball is a game which does not demand a spectator's undivided attention. The pace of the game allows fans time to talk and think.
The act is one of the subtle beautifiers of the sport. Just try to reminisce while watching a hockey game.
Monday's accidental twi-night double-header provided ample opportunity to look at a baseball season in Ephrata. And Ephrata is a good baseball town.
The double-header came about because the second game of the Midget Baseball playoffs was replayed. Lightning caused the game to be rescheduled from Friday.
The playoff game immediately followed the Ephrata Twilight League game with Schaefferstown.
The home teams won both games. The Ephrataa Tigers' 7-6 victory of Leola tied that series at one game apiece. In the opener, Scott Ahlum's sixth win of the season cliched Ephrat's spot in the Lbanon-Lancaster Twilight League playoffs.
Both wins were good, but together they were better. Not just the town wins, but two goes together.
The crowd was probably larger than either game would have drawn without the other. Spectators were vocal but not venomous. There was much more positive noise than negative noise.
The passionate, and sometimes vulgar, Town Team fans seemed to be on good behavior so as not to offend parents and youngsters.
The fist game afforded the spectators the chance to see the generally high caliber baseball of the Twilight League. Crips baseball is the best kind to watch. Baseball's reminiscence factor allowed long-time fans to look at the Town Team players and say, "I remember when he played midget ball."
Midget players could look at the older players and think, some day that could be me.
A few more of these double-headers each season would be a good idea. Of course you couldn't do it all of the time.
You don't want to keep players (using ones or older ones) up late all of the time. Twilight League players have to go to work in the morning and the midgets shouldn't be out too late. The double-header was not over until almost 11:30 p.m.
But now and then two games would be a good idea, because this is a good baseball town.
Fans would not have to miss a game they would like to see because of schedule conflicts. More people at the park encourage neighbors to talk about whatever is going on in the town at the time.
Remember, the pace of baseball allows for this kind of interaction. Basketball and hockey are too intense and too fast-paced to allow for conversation. Maybe that is the real reason they have halftime.
Parents, smaller children and — amazingly enough — teenagers can go to the same games and peacefully coexist. 
A spacious place like War Memorial Field — which is about as good as it gets in these parts, in fact in most parts — provides a safe, fenced-in area for little boys and girls to play games. It also provides a safe arena for young men and men and women to play their own games.
If it had been invented yet, Tom Sawyer and Becky Thatcher would have met at a baseball game.
Monday was cool enough and the recent rain had turned the grass green again. Groundskeeper, concession stand operator (with the help of his wife) and midget Coach Big Vierling admitted that the field looked good Monday.
One of the first things I noticed upon moving to this area, is that almost all oft little towns have a nice baseball field in the community park. One rule of thumb is good fields generally have good people taking care of them, which is important if you want to be a good baseball town.
And Ephrata is a good baseball town.
I think it was Ernie Banks, although in this case it doesn't really matter, who said something about it being such a nice day we ought to play two.
Mr. Cub, would have made the comment as he looked from the dugout onto the surface at Wrigley Field. It he had been in Ephrata on Monday evening, he would have said the same thing.
And he would have been right.

Tight race expected for cross country title

Cross country is not usually thought of as one of York County's strong sports. In fact, cross country is one of the YCIAA sports that is rarely thought about.
That isn't because the cross country isn't strong in this area.
"We have a good league," York Catholic Coach Joe Lucian said. "And we don't get credit for it. Last year we sent three teams to states."
Suburban, York Catholic and Dallastown all sent teams to the state meet last season. 
These three teams, along with Spring Grove and Eastern appear, at least on paper, to be the better teams in the league. But, cross country meets are not run on paper.
Dallastown - the Wildcats have four letter-winners returning from last year's 6-0 team which lost the YCIAA title to York Suburban.
Tim Barkdoll, Scott Zarchia, Dawn Lyons and Jason Kirk each lettered for the Wildcats. 
"WE hope a few people come around for us," John Klingler said. "WE have some filling in to do." 
Dallastown has seven girl out for the team and will run exhibition meets against other schools with girls' teams. 
York Catholic - The Irish might be the tea to beat this season, with eight returning letter-winners back from last season's 5-1 team which finished third in District 3 Class AA.
Keith Dowling, who finished 12th at states last season, will lead the Irish this season. Brian Strong, John McConville, and John Miles are Luckman's other returning lettermen.
Angie Corbo, Clare Johnston, Kathleen Borsa, Laura Hagerman and Rose Scheltema are the letter winners on the girls' team that has not lost a dual meet in the county for the last two seasons.
Eastern - John Maier has just eight runners on his team this season. If Eastern is to improve on last years 4-2 mark, some inexperienced runners will

Bentzel learns her state tennis opponent today

Carrie Bentzel isn't worried who her first-round opponent will be in the PIAA Tennis Championships Thursday at Harrisburg Area Community College - yet.
The Spring Grove sophomore doesn't know who her opponent will be, but she will found out at 5 pm. Today when the tournament will be drawn in Harrisburg. 
According to Bentzel and her coach - Cary Gault - the luck of the draw will be important to Bentzel's  success in the tournament.
"The first things she has to do is have a good draw," Gault said.
And a good draw, as far as Gault is concerned, means not coming up against one of the better players in the first round, so Bentzel has a chance to get acclimated to the courts, surroundings and weather at HACC. 
To Bentzel, the only YCIAA player who qualified for starts, a good draw means not having to fave Kelly Irving of Erie - last year's runner up to state champions Laura Glitz of York Suburban - the the early rounds. 
Bentzell is the YCIAA singles and doubles champion and District 3 runner-up.
"I'm excited," she said. "It all depends on the draw. I don't know who I'm going to play, but it gives you the change to relax (until the draw)." 
When Betnzel does play on Thursday, she will need more than luck to be successful. 
"They're slow courts," Gault said. "If the weather holds and they're outside, the courts will be slow. The name of the game on slow courts is to wait until you see an opening and then go for it."
"I'm going to have to keep playing well, like I have been playing lately," Bentzel said. "I'm going to have to attack and come to the net whenever I can."
Bentzel said she has no preference for fast or slow courts. Gault also said she chances for success are equal on either surface.
"I don't think it makes any difference," Gault said. "The big thing is to practice on the surfaces beforehand. She won county on the slow courts and finished second in districts on fast courts. Sh has proven she can perform on both."

Spartans Win Section Four Title...

He might be an underclassman, but Tim McCarty is no underachiever. At a time when most freshmen are just getting used to where the biology lab is located, McCarty was busy winning the biggest game of the season for the Garden Spot baseball team.
McCarty pitched six complete innings before being relieved by Greg Hostetter and Garden Spot edged Warwick 8-7 to win the playoff for the section Four baseball championship Saturday at War Memorial Field.
Garden Spot, 14-4 overall, forced the playoff by defeating Ephrata 10-3 Friday to tie Warwick fort he section title.
McCarty had one bad inning, giving up five runs in the second, but regained his control and went six innings until being relieved.
"The thing that impressed me,' Garden Spot Coach Ray Stern said, "is that when he lost his control for a little he came back and pitched well. We told him a few things he was doing wrong and he came back and pitched well in the middle innings."
McCarty retired Warwick in order after his teammates gave him a six-run lead in the top of the first inning, but things didn't go as smoothly in the second inning.
Warwick scored five runs on four hits and two walks in the second. It looked like the Warriors had McCarty's pitches figured out. But in a game that had more plot changes than a bad soap opera, McCarty held on. 
"I tried to take McCarty as long as I could," Stern said.
The reason Stern went with a freshman in the biggest game of the year is that his ace, Hostetter, had pitched a complete game Friday to force the tie with Warwick. Stern hoped to get a few innings of relief pitching from Hostetter if necessary, but also wanted to preserve Hostetter's arm for the upcoming league and District 3 playoffs. 
But with a one' run lead going into the bottom of the seventh inning, Stern decided it was time. If the Spartans didn't win Saturday, Garden Spot's pitching staff would get plenty of rest.
"I went to him (Hostetter) as a psychological move," Stern said. " I thought he could control them. He beat them before."
Hostetter got Warwick's leadoff batter to ground out to first baseman Luke Brubaker. After walking Matt Rowlands to put the tying run on base, Hostetter struck out the next two batters to save McCarty's win.
"Wednesday night, who could have dreamed?" Stern wondered aloud.
Garden Spot was tied with the Warriors at the end of last week but lost 2-1 to Lampeter-Strasberg on Wednesday. But the Pioneers returned the favor by downing Warwick 3-2 on Friday afternoon to let Garden Spot back in the race.
"We dug ourselves a hole in the first inning," Warwick Coach Jack Frank said. "We had a heck of a season, we were just in a section with a

... But Fall in L-L Semifinal

The name was Kimmel - with a capital K.
There should have been 13 Ks to be exact, one for each batter Manheim Township's Brian Kimmel struck out en route to his 2-0 victory over Garden Spot in the the semifinals of the Lancaster-Lebanon League baseball playoffs Tuesday night at War Memorial Field.
Manheim Township will face Northern Lebanon, which defeated Donegal 8-3 at 6 pm Thursday at War Memorial Field for the league championship.
"I thought he moved his pitches well," Garden Spot Coach Ray Stern said. "He did a good job."
And Raquel Welch is just another brunette.
Kimmel was a Knockout, again with a K, scattering five hits and walking only two batters. He even gave himself a lead homerun in the top of the sixth inning.
Even before Kimmel deposited one o Greg Hostetter's pitches into the left field bleachers at War Memorial Field, it looked like Manheim Township's second-inning run might be  enough to eke out the win. Kimmel and Hostetter were locked in a textbook pitchers' duel. Kimmel's fastball and Hostetter's curve had made runs scarce.
And what the pitchers didn't take care of, the Garden Spot defense did. 
Throughout the game, the spartans seemed to be filtering with disaster - they were practically engaged. But each time, Hostetter and company found a way to avoid collapsing.
With the bases loaded and no outs in the fourth inning, it looked like Manheim Township would considerably pad its one-run lead until Hostetter fielded a round ball in front of the mound and turned it into a 1-2-3 double play. 
In the next inning, the Blue Streaks had runners on first and third and tried a double steal. Garden Spot anticipated the play and cut down the runner trying to score. Hostetter then snared a line drive and struck out the last batter of the inning.
"The story of the game was their good pitching against our good defense," Stern said. "We played some good defense and could have scored a lot more runs."
As it turned out one was enough. 

An At-Large Takes Charge
The Conestoga Valley Buckskins have made the District 3 baseball selection committee look pretty smart.
After a shaky early part of the season, the Bucksins received an at-large bid to the baseball playoffs and have acquitted themselves well.
The selection comittee chooses the at-large bids for the annual District 3 baseball tournament. An at-large bid, in case you happened to be visiting deep space during this winter's NCAA College Basketball Tournament, is an invitation for a team to participate in the playoffs even though the team failed to win its league.
The selection committee is purported to look at things like strength of schedule, strong finishes, teams with key injured players returning at the right time and things like that. And then they select Notre Dame.
In college basketball there is something called part. Parity means that there are enough talented basketball players in the country so that any school with a gym and some scholarships to offer has the potential to beat any other school. The system works fairly well and is immensely entertaining.
In a slightly different way, the principle can be applied to high school baseball. Players are distributed on a more or less random basis. And a season of approximately 20 games can prove very little. At the high school level, a bout with the flu, a band trip to Ohio or a week of detention can pretty much mangle a season.
Also, a less than talented team could play over its collective head for long enough to steal a championship before succumbing to terminal nose-bleed. If Major League Baseball held its playoffs after so few games the American League Championship Series opener right have been played in Cleveland Stadium.
After a horrendous 2-5 start in the regular season, Conestoga Valley righted itself and won nine straight baseball games. Unfortunately, the bad start was too much for the Buckskins to overcome in the Section Four title race. Manheim Township, a deserving team, won the title but lost to Northern Lebanon in the Lancaster-Lebanon League Championship game.
When Conestoga Valley was awarded an at-large bid on the strength of its strong finish and a 4-0 exhibition mark, there were some questions asked. Cedar Crest had a better record than the Bucksins, maybe they should have gotten the bid. 
The wheat would be separated from the chaff, so to speak, when Conestoga Valley met league champion Northern Lebanon in the first round o the District 3 Class AAA playoffs.
The Buckskins edged the Vikings, 1-0, in what was easily the best baseball game I've watched this year. Did this prove that Conestoga Valley was the best team and that Manheim Township's section title was a fluke and that Northern Lebanon was lucky?
It most certainly did not.
It is impossible for the two-time champion of the league to be called unworthy by anyone who has more brains than a sunfish.
The Blue Streaks won more games in league and did not have a spell where they lost five of seven games. Consistency is one of the most important things to look for in a championship team.

Rain and Bar Fall for Wenger at State Track Championships
The concentration needed to high jump has a balance as delicate as the bar resting on the standards. It really doesn't take much to know it out of place and send it falling back to earth.
Carla Wenger learned that lesson last Friday at the PIAA Track and Field Championships at Shippensburg University.
A thunderstorm interrupted the girls' Class AAA high jump after the first two heights of the competition. Wenger had cleared 4-foot-10 and 5-0 with ease, but missed on three attempts at 5-2 after the competition resumed.
"It just messed up my concentration out there after it rained," Wenger said. "But that's not excuse. I should have made that height."
Wenger was not alone. Lancaster Catholic's Amy Conti, whose Wenger had been training with last week, also went out at 5-2. Twelve of the 22 entrants had been eliminated at that height. 
Rain stopped competition in the field events twice during Friday's competition and how people handled delays had an impact on how well they fared.
Great Valley's defending champion Karen DiDomato, who won the event with a jump of 5-8, simply ignore everyone and everything during the meet. DiDomato, who also owns the state record in the high jump with a jump of 5-10, fast least year's state meet, sat off by herself under an umbrella until the rain suspended the event.
After the rain had stopped and more than half of the field had been eliminated, DiDomato entered the competition at 5-4. After slowly taking off her warm-up suit and stretching or a minute or two, DiDomato cleared 5-4 with several inches to spare. Only five jumpers cleared 5-4. And the second place jump was 5-5, three inches below the winning height. Susan Gaines, of Springfield, edged Dallastown's Beth Borchelt for a second place at 5-5 on the basis of fewer misses.

There's Always Room For A Little Change

After much thought - not to mention numerous angry letters, scathing phone calls and generally venomous scuttlebutt, whoops, I mentioned them anyway - there has been a change in the way the Review handles midget sports.
Why? Good question.
From the viewpoint of the sports editor of the Ephrata Review, I will attempt to answer the questions, starting with some of the reasons which were not the ones for making the change.
The change is not a knee-jerk reaction to a couple of angry readers. Sports editors always have do and will receive angry phone calls and letters from readers. It comes with the job. Any writer, expect maybe the most sniveling milquetoast, gets this kind of criticism. There was no pressure from my superiors to change my ways
Nor has my personal view of youth sports changed. Little League this, Midget-Midget that and whatever ether diminutive athletes might be out there, have not suddenly altered my personal priorities as to what sports news is.
The reason for the change is that this type of information is important or various reasons to a significant portion of the readership of this paper. So the Review has decided present youth sports - which generally, although not exclusively, can be defined as supervised recreational leagues for non-varsity teams and athletes school - in its own portion of the sports page.
Physically, the change involves moving midget news into its own boxed-in section with its own heading. The second can be expanded or condensed as needed. When appropriate and available a midget photo of the week will be a part of the section. Sometimes, maybe even two.
This section is not intended to be a play-by-play listing all the weekly occurrences, but an overview of the midget activity in the area, presented in a manner proportionate to its importance. And there is plenty of activity in the area.
Results and scores will remain in the box scores/scoreboard portion of the sports section.
Covering this activity requires help from the people involved. Each league should find someone who can provide information to the sports desk, or at the very least a phone number we can call for information. Some leagues do this; many do not. This person must know first and last names (spelled properly), the right scores, when the games were played and other pertinent sports information. Again, phone numbers of people who would know these things are invaluable.
This process would take someone interested in the league about 30 minutes each week. This does not mean those people are doing the job of this paper. There are many activities going on that this paper is never made aware of, yet held to task for not covering. Rom my standpoint, I would be glad to have a number of someone from each league I could contact on a regular basis.
And there you have it, a policy based n what we believe is solid ground. This is intended to cover all youth sports in this area on a more or less even basis. But it relies on each organization to establish some meaningful communication link with this paper. 
If it is important enough for parents, relatives and friends to see this information in the paper, then it should be important enough to make certain that accurate, timely information gets to the sports desk, For example, the Schoeneck Weasels' victory in the Homeland baseball tournament is not news three weeks after the fact.
Information from the prior week or weekend should be passed along to the paper by Monday evening. If you have questions about what kind of information is needed, call us at 733-2244.
Simply? Yes. Fair? If each teams makes a reasonable effort to open lines of communication, the system will be fair.
One more thing, if you attend youth sports activities, don't make an idiot of yourself harassing officials, coaches or players.

Remember Rudy T?
Every so often, someone denounces sports as being nothing more than children's games played be adults. The criticism gets even sharper when athletes are labeled emotional children in adult bodies.
Unfortunately, this idea is a recurring one because evidence keeps presenting itself in the headlines.
Ralph Sampson and Akeem Olajuwon tried to become the world's tallest tag team combination last Thursday in Houston. While Sampson's jab seemed to show some potential, Sylvester the Cat's - next big-screen opponent.
Sampson was justifiably ejected from the game and, luckily, no one was hurt. But apparently the Twin Towers have forgotten the last famous fight involving Houston Rockets.
Kermit Washington did know how to punch and Rudy Tomjanovich's face was more or less caved in by Washington's right hand. And Rudy T. Was trying to break up a fight when he came up behind Washington. Tomjanovich needed reconstructive surgery and his jaw was wired shut for months. He lost the rest of the seasons and all of the next while recovering.
When he did com back Tomjanovich was never the same player again.
Two weeks ago, Ray Knight, who plays third base for the New York Mets, charged the mound and pummeled Dodger reliever Tom Niedenfuer, who hit him with a pitch. A major league battle royal ensured.
John McEnroe's name could be listed as a synonym for tantrum in Roget's thesaurus. We haven't heard much about McEnroe's behavior lately. Then again, he hasn't been on the tour in recent months.
Unfortunately, the list goes on.
Long careers by players like Julius Erving, Cart Yastrzemski and Roger Staubach can be quickly forgotten when Danny Ainge pouts like an 8-year-old. You expect an occasional tantrum from an 8-year-old. But you can also ground, spank, or send them to bed without supper. Ainge will receive a championship ring.
Big-time athletes are not the only culprits.
High school coaches get ejected. Players get ejected. Parents and friends of high school players get ejected.
In the District 3 Class AAA baseball championship game, a player from Cumberland Valley taunted Conestoga Valley fans from second base after delivering a key double late in the game.
Nine years ago, in a high school junior varsity basketball game, I missed the front end of a one-and-one at the foul line. Actually, I missed a lot of foul shots in my high school career, and we were trailing by two points. We lost the game by two points.
When the team returned to the locker room, I pushed a paper towel dispenser. It hurt my hand and dented the dispenser.
After I had taken a shower and was getting a soda in the lobby, a kid decided to give me a hard time about losing the game. He was a small kid and the school was full of big lockers. A teammate assisted me in stuffing the kid into the locker and then we left. A security guard heard the kid pounding and, after tying a few lockers, found the kid.
Yeah, it was a pretty juvenile way of handling the situation. Regardless of how much that kid deserved to be stuffed into the locker - and then severely thrashed with the bottom of a wet sneaker - it was not my place to do it.
The same goes for Sampson, Olajuwon, Niedenfuer, Knight, Ainge, McEnroe and countless others. There's no justifiable reason for these incidents to happen. It doesn't matter what Jerry Sichting did to Sampson earlier in the game. What Conestoga Valley's fans may or may not have done to upset Cumberland Valley's center fielder is irrelevant. Aside from his superb serve-and-volley game, most of what John McEnroe does is irrelevant.
An infantile response to a childish stimulus only reinforces the concept that the world of sports is not ready to leave the playpen - even though I don't believe that to be the case. The he-hit-me-first-so-it's-ok-to-hit-him-back mentality will keep the recurring notion flourishing that sports is nothing more than adults playing children's games.
It also increases the frighteningly real possibility of another Rudy Tomjanovich tragedy. 

Full Speed Ahead ... Look Out For Icebergs
Like the Titanic and an iceberg - sort of - Ephrata and Conestoga Valley are steaming through the night, each on a collision course with the other.
The question? Which team's path has the history of sailing imperviously through the waters of Section Two. In recent years, Buckskin football has been a study in superlatives.
But no ship is unsinkable. And in case you haven't noticed, the Ephrata offensive lines have been ripping large holes in the opponents lines. When the lines of Jeff Kramer and Eric Frees pour through those holes it's time to man the lifeboats.
To the port, maybe Ephrata will play the role of the doomed dreadnaught. Last year, everyone worth their sea salt knew what CV had - everything. This year the Bucks are a little different. Like an iceberg, the tru danger of Conestoga Valley may be lurking out of sight, below the waterline.
I hope both teams are undefeated when they meet on Sept. 25. However, there are more immediate dangers at hand. Conestoga Valley must face Hempfield and Ephrata will visit Shillington to ace Governor Mifflin on Friday. Conestoga Valley, will play its third Section One opponent in as many weeks. And the big, strong Black Knights could be a problem for the smaller, but tenacious, Buckskins.